Forward Lookup Brute Force
Brute force is a trial-and-error technique
that seeks to find valid information,
including directories on a webserver,
username and password combinations,
or in this case, valid DNS records.
By using a wordlist that contains common hostnames,
we can attempt to guess DNS records
and check the response for valid hostnames.
In the examples so far,
we used forward lookups,
which request the
IP address of a hostname,
to query both a valid
and an invalid hostname.
If host successfully resolves
a name to an IP,
this could be an indication
of a functional server.
We can automate the forward DNS
lookup of common hostnames
using the host command
in a Bash one-liner.
We will use this short list of potential
hostnames for demonstration purposes.
Our one-liner will loop through our
list and attempt to resolve each hostname.
With this simplified wordlist,
we discovered entries for
“www”, “mail”, and “router”.
The hostnames “ftp”, “owa”, and
“proxy”, however, were not found.
Much more comprehensive wordlists are
available as part of the SecLists project,
which can be installed with apt.